(upbeat music)
Alright, we're gonna build one of these
with async await as well as recursion.
I'm gonna show you two different ways
that we could could do this and essentially, you take any,
element that has a data-type attribute on it
and then we will figure out how can we like
make it look like that is being typed.
We also want the ability to pass in a min and a max
amount of time between each of the type
and that will make it look a little bit more human
in that there is not every letter will be immediately
after 100 milliseconds but they will be sort of a range
that we can do that.
So, I am in 71, async typer.js.
This will also show you a really good example
of why it's async because all four of these
are running at the exact same time.
So, if this was synchronous,
the first one would have to be done
then the next one, then the next one, then the next one,
but these can all wait for a certain amount of time
without interfering with each other.
So we'll go into our scripts.js here.
And first thing we wanna do is to make that function
called wait again, because I'm gonna make you
write it again.
And we'll install it pretty soon, from NPM,
once we learn about modules.
So from that, I'm gonna return a new Promise.
And we'll get resolve and we'll setTimeout resolve
after how many milliseconds are needed.
Then we also need a function called getRandomBetween,
and this is a function that will give you a random number
between a min and a max value.
So we already know that you can calculate
a min and a max value by saying, Math.random
and multiplying it by a number and that will give us
a random number between zero and 2.99999.
Or if I were to Math.floor it,
that would give us a random number between zero and two
every single time.
But like, what if you want a random number
between 10 and 15?
How do you do that?
Well, it's pretty much the exact same thing except the,
we shifted up by the amount of the min.
So we return Math.random.
We multiply that by the max minus the min.
And that will, so if I am passing in,
here let's do some defaults here.
So the min will be 20 milliseconds, and the max will be 150.
So, by doing this, I'm going to get a random number
between zero and 130.
So, that's good, but it's not between 20 and 150.
So then, then what we do is, we shift it up 20
by adding the min value there.
And then, what that should give us,
is, getRandomBetween,
we run it between zero and 100,
that will give us a random number between zero and 100.
If you want, you can also wrap that in a Math.floor.
And that's gonna give you a whole number.
One thing that people don't like about using random numbers
and also things that change over time, like dates,
is it's not a pure function and a pure function
is something like add a and b, and then you return a plus b.
So that is a pure function because every single time
that I run one and two, I'm always gonna get three.
If I run it again, 10 minutes later, it will be three.
If I run it again in 100 years, it will always be three.
So a pure function is this idea,
that a function that takes in arguments,
will always, always, always return the exact same value
and that makes testing your functions really, really easy.
Now, with this function,
and same thing with random numbers and dates,
you never know what those values are going to be.
And that makes this random number,
function really hard to sort of test
because every time you run it, you get a different value.
So like, how do you make a pure function,
when the thing is implicitly random.
And the way that you do that, is you pass in a random number
so that you can then test it.
So I'm gonna take an argument of a random number,
and then you replace Math.random with a random number.
And now, when I run this thing,
I can pass in a random number.
And I'm always, always, always gonna get the same value.
So, the way that you would then use that
in a production application is you say,
Math.random, so you call it
and then every time that you run it,
you can get a different value, but it is easily testable,
because if you pass in a consistent random number,
you'll always get a consistently random number back.
One little cheat you can do, to this,
is instead of having to pass it in,
is you can set the default random number
to just be Math.random.
And what that will do, is, if you don't pass,
the third argument, then it will just default
to a random number, similarly to how we had it initially.
But if you wanna use this in tests
or you want to get a consistently random number,
then you can pass in your own generated random number.
Next, we wanna make our function called draw,
that takes in an element,
and let's just console log,
the element and then we'll grab all of our elements.
So say const els is equal to
document.querySelectorAll.
And we're gonna select anything
that has a data-type attribute on it.
If you take a look at these,
they all have a data-type attribute
and then they have the ability to pass in
a min and a max value.
If they want, for this random between value,
then we'll take our els and we'll loop over each one
and for each element, we will draw the element
and we'll pass it.
Now that can be shortened.
Let's just make sure this works,
that we've got all four elements popping up.
But let that can be shortened quite a bit.
Instead of making an arrow function here and passing the el,
we can simply just pass it draw,
and it will call the function for us for each one.
And then we can actually get away with this,
deleting this variable and just calling .forEach,
right after the querySelectorAll.
Next up, what we wanna do is, start looping over it.
So we're gonna do it twice.
So we're going first do it with async for of loop
and then we're going to do it again with recursion.
So in here, what we'll do, is we'll take a copy
of the text of the elements.
So text is equal to element.textContent.
I'm gonna rename this to just el.
And then, the way that it's gonna work,
is that we're gonna erase all the text
that's in this element and letter by letter,
we're going to, write it back in.
So we'll say, first time it's just a T.
The next time is a Th.
The third time is Thi.
The fourth time is This and then the space,
you get the point.
So what we'll do, is we make a variable called soFar
and we'll set that to an empty string.
And then we'll loop over every letter of the text.
Now previously for looping over letter,
we've used like a spread or we split it
or something like that, but a for of loop,
we'll have the ability to loop over text,
one letter at a time.
So we just say const.
So we say for const letter of text.
You can console log, the letter.
And I'll say, soFar plus equals, the letter.
So for each letter, we're going to just tack it
on to the end.
You can also just say soFar,
is equal to soFar plus the letter.
And that would just, might yes,
let's just turn that right back there.
So, if we console log,
soFar, and I'm gonna take
the data-type off this paragraph,
just so we can visualize what's going on here.
You see what happens is this T, T, Th, Thi, This,
they're out of order because, some of them are,
they're all running at the exact same time
but you can kinda see if I scroll through here,
you'll see that they are slowly building themselves on up.
Now what we need to do, inside of this for of loop,
is, we can do this,
we'll say el.textContent,
is equal to soFar.
And when we reload the page, you don't even see it,
it's so fast,
but, we really are replacing it with the data that we want.
And I can show you that by just, I don't know,
concatenating on something else as well.
You'll see that when you load the page, very quickly,
it runs this code and updates the text.
So what we wanna do, is wait for some amount of time.
So we'll say await, wait for, I don't know, 10 milliseconds.
That doesn't work and we go to our console.
We cannot await unless we are inside of,
an async function, like that.
And that actually looks pretty cool,
but to make it a little bit more human,
we're gonna wait a random amount of time.
And that random amount of time,
will be determined by this.
We'll say const amountOfTimeToWait,
is equal to, getRandomBetween,
and we will say, let's just,
let's just run it like that,
because these all have defaults.
And we can take amountOfTimeToWait, pass it in here.
Looking good, looking good.
Now what we can do, is we can pull in,
the min and the max value, so say,
const typeMin and typeMax
is equal to, el.dataset.
And if we were to console log el.dataset, you'll see,
each of these will have a type
and maybe a typeMin and maybe a typeMax.
Now you'll see that it turned our kabob case,
data-type-max into camel case, which is good.
So we went from kabob to camel
and that's why we can access it with typeMin and typeMax.
Then we can just take typeMin and typeMax,
pass it to our getRandomBetween,
it looks like it's passing in those values nicely to us.
We can get rid of these console logs here
and let's put the data-type back on, to our paragraph tag
and see if that one works.
Look at that.
Looking good, looking good.
So that is how we do it with a for of loop.
What I wanna do is comment that out,
and I'll show you another way to do it with recursion.
And recursion refers to this concept,
of a function calling itself, until there is some sort of
what's called an exit condition, until it should stop.
So make a function, that should be async function.
And we'll call it draw, takes in an element.
And the way that this one was going to work, is that,
we're gonna keep an index, inside of here,
that will be incremented once every single time.
So we'll say, let index is equal to zero,
that will change your console to go back
and change that in a second.
Then we'll take the text, that's the el.textContent.
And I also, let's just grab,
the typeMin and typeMax.
Now, we are going to write another function
inside of this draw.
And we're taking advantage of closures here,
because we can run a function multiple times
by still accessing these values.
So make a function in here called drawLetter,
and that will be async, actually this one
doesn't need to be async.
It's just this one right here.
And the way that this one is gonna work,
is we'll take this index, and we're gonna take, the first,
we're gonna take zero letters.
Then we're gonna take one letter.
Then we're going to take two letters.
Then we'll take three letters
and we'll just update that element every single time.
So we say el.textContent, is equal to,
the text that they originally had typed in there,
and we'll slice it starting at zero,
and going up until the index that we have.
So remember slice we'll do something like this,
wes bos.slice, zero, go to two,
we get we, but if I go to six, wes bo.
And seven, I get all of them.
So, the idea is that this drawLetter,
is going to run the first time, was zero,
maybe we should just start at one actually
because otherwise there'd be no text there.
So started at one, and now,
when we run this, actually doesn't do anything
but it's because we haven't called this drawLetter.
So, we'll do a comment here,
when this function draw runs,
kick off drawLetter.
So drawLetter.
Now you see, if I do it really quickly,
you can see the text and then we run drawLetter
with the first letter, okay.
So, that's good.
But then part of this we could say, index is equal to,
index plus one, and we'll make this a let,
that just changes to index plus equals one.
And then we need to like run drawLetter again,
so like, how do you do that?
Well, you can drawLetter.
And this is their recursive part,
meaning that, drawLetter.
Part of the logic of drawLetter, is to call itself
and this will create an infinite loop.
This will probably break the browser, let's see.
Maximum call stack size exceeded.
Remember we talked about call stack,
and adding things to the call stack,
so drawLetter gets called and then it calls drawLetter,
which then, calls drawLetter,
which then calls drawLetter.
And it's just calling itself over and over and it,
eventually the browser is gonna say,
you've added too many things to the call stack,
you probably didn't mean to do that.
And it'll just break for you before your computer
catches on fire.
So what we need to do, is a little,
this is called an exit condition.
And we say, if the index,
is less or equal to,
the length of the text that we have, then run it again.
And what that will do is it will run it
if there's more letters to draw,
if not, it will stop and the whole function will be over.
And, that works.
I'm trying to figure out why it doesn't work
and we forgot the await part.
So it runs very quickly, right?
Because you could console.log, hi,
and you'll see hi is running there, a couple thousand times,
because there's a couple of thousand letters in here.
So what we wanna do is, wait for some time.
So await wait, for maybe 10 milliseconds,
will actually do that, right here,
not inside of the if statement.
You'll see now it's doing it right after 10 milliseconds
but then we can take the exact same thing
that we did earlier.
Say const amountofTimeToWait, is equal to,
get a random number and the reason why we're getting,
doing the calculation of the random amount of time
inside of drawLetter, is that every letter
I want it to be random.
And I don't wanna, if I were to put that up here,
the random value would be calculated once
and they would all be that amount.
By doing it inside of the drawLetter,
every single time we draw a letter,
we get a new random amount of time to wait,
then we pass that to our await.
Looks great.
So, two different ways to do it,
you probably could also do it with a While loop,
maybe if you wanna take a look at, into doing that,
but quite honestly, I probably would go,
the async for of loop.
Personally, but you're certainly will see
this quite a bit as well.
See you in the next one.